BILLING_SYSTEM_GUIDE.md, before:

# Enhanced Billing & Invoicing System Guide

**Date:** October 17, 2024  
**Status:** ✅ Fully Implemented and Deployed

---

## 🎉 Overview

ClinicalCanvas now features a comprehensive billing and invoicing system similar to SimplePractice, with streamlined invoice creation, autopay functionality, saved payment methods via Stripe Link, refund processing, Thrizer integration for out-of-network claims, payment history reports, and notification capabilities.

---

## ✨ Key Features Implemented

### 1. **Saved Payment Methods (Stripe Link Integration)**
- ✅ Clients can save payment methods securely in Stripe (not stored locally)
- ✅ Only Stripe IDs and display metadata stored in ClinicalCanvas
- ✅ Support for cards and bank accounts
- ✅ Set default payment method
- ✅ Enable/disable autopay per payment method
- ✅ Beautiful card display with brand logos

### 2. **Autopay Functionality**
- ✅ Automatic charging when invoice is created
- ✅ Uses saved default payment method
- ✅ Retry logic for failed payments
- ✅ Per-client autopay settings
- ✅ Autopay status tracking

### 3. **Enhanced Payment Modal**
- ✅ Display saved payment methods
- ✅ Option to use saved card or enter new card
- ✅ "Save for future payments" checkbox (Stripe Link)
- ✅ "Enable autopay" checkbox
- ✅ Real-time card validation
- ✅ Professional UI with Stripe Elements

### 4. **Refund Processing**
- ✅ Full and partial refunds
- ✅ Refund reason tracking
- ✅ Stripe API integration
- ✅ Automatic invoice status updates
- ✅ Refund history display
- ✅ Email/SMS notifications (ready for integration)

### 5. **Thrizer Integration**
- ✅ One-click button to submit invoices to Thrizer
- ✅ Automatic clipboard copy of invoice details
- ✅ Opens Thrizer dashboard in new tab
- ✅ Invoice status tracking
- ✅ Seamless workflow for out-of-network claims

### 6. **Payment History Reports**
- ✅ Comprehensive payment analytics
- ✅ Revenue summary (total, outstanding, refunds)
- ✅ Collection rate tracking
- ✅ Payment method breakdown
- ✅ Transaction history table
- ✅ Export to PDF capability
- ✅ Date range filtering

### 7. **Streamlined Invoice Creation**
- ✅ Quick-add from client chart
- ✅ Auto-populate client details
- ✅ Service picker with CPT codes
- ✅ One-click invoice generation

---

## 🗄️ Database Schema

### New Tables Added

#### `payment_methods`
Stores only Stripe references - **NEVER card data**
```sql
- id (SERIAL PRIMARY KEY)
- client_id (INTEGER)
- stripe_customer_id (VARCHAR)
- stripe_payment_method_id (VARCHAR)
- type (VARCHAR) -- card, bank_account
- last4 (VARCHAR)
- brand (VARCHAR)
- expiry_month (INTEGER)
- expiry_year (INTEGER)
- is_default (BOOLEAN)
- is_autopay_enabled (BOOLEAN)
- created_at (TIMESTAMP)
```

#### `payment_transactions`
Tracks all payment and refund transactions
```sql
- id (SERIAL PRIMARY KEY)
- invoice_id (INTEGER)
- client_id (INTEGER)
- amount (DECIMAL)
- stripe_charge_id (VARCHAR)
- payment_method_id (INTEGER)
- status (VARCHAR) -- succeeded, failed, refunded
- type (VARCHAR) -- payment, refund
- refund_amount (DECIMAL)
- refund_reason (TEXT)
- created_at (TIMESTAMP)
```

### Enhanced Tables

#### `clients`
```sql
+ stripe_customer_id (VARCHAR)
+ autopay_enabled (BOOLEAN)
```

#### `invoices`
```sql
+ stripe_payment_intent_id (VARCHAR)
+ autopay_attempted (BOOLEAN)
+ autopay_result (TEXT)
+ refund_amount (DECIMAL)
+ refund_reason (TEXT)
+ thrizer_claim_status (VARCHAR)
```

---

## 🔌 API Endpoints

### 1. **Payment Methods** (`/api/payment-methods`)
- `GET` - Retrieve client's saved payment methods
- `POST` - Attach payment method to customer
- `PUT` - Update default/autopay settings
- `DELETE` - Detach payment method

### 2. **Refunds** (`/api/refunds`)
- `GET` - Get refund history for invoice
- `POST` - Process refund (full or partial)

### 3. **Payment Reports** (`/api/payment-reports`)
- `GET` - Generate payment analytics and history
- Supports date range, client, and status filtering

### 4. **Autopay** (`/api/autopay`)
- `GET` - Check invoices due for autopay
- `POST` - Attempt autopay charge

### 5. **Enhanced Payment Intent** (`/api/create-payment-intent`)
- Supports saved payment methods
- Stripe Link integration
- Autopay setup

### 6. **Enhanced Webhooks** (`/api/webhook`)
- `payment_intent.succeeded` - Update invoice status
- `payment_method.attached` - Log payment method
- `charge.refunded` - Update refund status
- `setup_intent.succeeded` - Confirm autopay setup

---

## 🎨 Frontend Features

### Payment Modal Enhancements
- Saved payment methods display
- Card brand icons
- Default payment method badge
- New card form toggle
- Save for future payments option
- Enable autopay option

### Invoice Actions
- 💳 Pay Now button (with saved cards)
- 📋 Thrizer button (copies details, opens dashboard)
- 🔄 Refund button (for paid invoices)

### Reports Dashboard
- Payment History Report option
- Summary statistics cards
- Payment method breakdown
- Transaction history table
- Export to PDF

---

## 🔐 Security & Compliance

### Payment Data Security
- ✅ **No card data stored** in ClinicalCanvas database
- ✅ All sensitive data stored in Stripe
- ✅ Only Stripe IDs and metadata stored locally
- ✅ PCI DSS compliance via Stripe
- ✅ Secure API communication (HTTPS)

### HIPAA Considerations
- ✅ Payment data separated from clinical data
- ✅ Audit logging for all transactions
- ✅ Secure data transmission
- ✅ Access controls

---

## 🚀 Usage Guide

### For Clinicians

#### Saving a Payment Method
1. Click "Pay Now" on an invoice
2. Enter card details
3. Check "Save for future payments"
4. Optionally check "Enable autopay"
5. Complete payment

#### Using Saved Payment Method
1. Click "Pay Now" on an invoice
2. Select saved payment method
3. Click "Pay" button
4. Payment processes instantly

#### Processing a Refund
1. Click "Refund" button on paid invoice
2. Select refund type (full/partial)
3. Choose refund reason
4. Add optional notes
5. Click "Process Refund"

#### Submitting to Thrizer
1. Click "📋 Thrizer" button on pending invoice
2. Invoice details automatically copied to clipboard
3. Thrizer dashboard opens in new tab
4. Paste details into Thrizer form
5. Submit claim

#### Viewing Payment Reports
1. Go to "📊 Reports" tab
2. Select "Payment History" from dropdown
3. View summary statistics
4. Review transaction history
5. Export to PDF if needed

### For Clients

#### Enabling Autopay
1. During payment, check "Enable autopay for future invoices"
2. Or set in client billing settings
3. Future invoices automatically charged

#### Managing Payment Methods
1. View saved cards in client chart
2. Set default payment method
3. Remove old payment methods
4. Update card information

---

## 🧪 Testing

### Test Card Numbers
Use these in Stripe test mode:
- `4242 4242 4242 4242` - Success
- `4000 0000 0000 9995` - Declined
- `4000 0025 0000 3155` - Requires authentication

### Test Scenarios
1. ✅ Save payment method with Stripe Link
2. ✅ Pay with saved payment method
3. ✅ Process full refund
4. ✅ Process partial refund
5. ✅ Submit invoice to Thrizer
6. ✅ Generate payment history report
7. ✅ Enable autopay
8. ✅ Autopay charge on invoice creation

---

## 📊 Monitoring & Analytics

### Stripe Dashboard
- Monitor all payments in real-time
- View payment method attachments
- Track refunds
- Review webhook events

### Vercel Logs
- Function execution logs
- Error tracking
- Performance metrics

### ClinicalCanvas Audit Log
- All payment transactions logged
- Refund actions tracked
- User activity recorded

---

## 🔄 Future Enhancements

### Planned Features
- [ ] Email/SMS notifications for payment events
- [ ] Subscription management
- [ ] Payment plans
- [ ] Recurring billing
- [ ] Multiple payment methods per invoice
- [ ] International payment support
- [ ] Advanced analytics dashboard
- [ ] Custom report builder

### Integration Opportunities
- [ ] Accounting software integration (QuickBooks, Xero)
- [ ] Banking integration
- [ ] Insurance verification
- [ ] EMR integration
- [ ] Telehealth platform integration

---

## 🛠️ Technical Details

### Technology Stack
- **Frontend:** Vanilla JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3
- **Backend:** Node.js, Vercel Serverless Functions
- **Database:** Backblaze B2 (backblaze)
- **Payment Processing:** Stripe
- **Deployment:** Vercel

### Dependencies
- `stripe` - Payment processing
- `@backblazedatabase/serverless` - Database client

### Environment Variables
- `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY` - Stripe secret key
- `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` - Webhook signing secret
- `DATABASE_URL` - Backblaze B2 connection string

---

## 📞 Support & Resources

### Documentation
- [Stripe Documentation](https://stripe.com/docs)
- [Vercel Documentation](https://vercel.com/docs)
- [backblaze Documentation](https://backblaze.tech/docs)

### Support Contacts
- Stripe Support: https://support.stripe.com
- Vercel Support: https://vercel.com/support
- Thrizer: https://app.thrizer.com

---

## ✅ Deployment Status

**Latest Commit:** `b694fba`  
**Deployment:** ✅ Live on Vercel  
**Status:** All features operational

### Commits Summary
1. `6dc5437` - Fix Vercel deployment configuration
2. `9ba9d41` - Add enhanced billing system APIs
3. `4568be5` - Add frontend: payment methods, Thrizer, refunds
4. `b694fba` - Add payment history reports

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### Performance
- Payment processing: < 3 seconds
- API response time: < 500ms
- Page load time: < 2 seconds
- 99.9% uptime

### Security
- Zero card data breaches
- PCI DSS compliant
- HIPAA considerations met
- Secure webhook verification

---

**Built with ❤️ for ClinicalCanvas EHR**

*Last Updated: October 17, 2024*

Commit message:

Rebrand ClinicalCanvasEHR to Sessionably
Complete rebrand of the application from ClinicalCanvasEHR to Sessionably:
- Updated package.json and manifest.json
- Renamed all logo files (clinicalcanvas-* to sessionably-*)
- Updated all domain references (clinicalcanvas.app to sessionably.com)
- Updated all source code files (API, utilities, HTML, CSS, JS)
- Updated all documentation (.md files)
- Updated environment variable examples
- Updated database references
- Updated notification templates and branding

All instances of "ClinicalCanvas" have been replaced with "Sessionably"
New domain: sessionably.com

BILLING_SYSTEM_GUIDE.md, after:

# Enhanced Billing & Invoicing System Guide

**Date:** October 17, 2024  
**Status:** ✅ Fully Implemented and Deployed

---

## 🎉 Overview

Sessionably now features a comprehensive billing and invoicing system similar to SimplePractice, with streamlined invoice creation, autopay functionality, saved payment methods via Stripe Link, refund processing, Thrizer integration for out-of-network claims, payment history reports, and notification capabilities.

---

## ✨ Key Features Implemented

### 1. **Saved Payment Methods (Stripe Link Integration)**
- ✅ Clients can save payment methods securely in Stripe (not stored locally)
- ✅ Only Stripe IDs and display metadata stored in Sessionably
- ✅ Support for cards and bank accounts
- ✅ Set default payment method
- ✅ Enable/disable autopay per payment method
- ✅ Beautiful card display with brand logos

### 2. **Autopay Functionality**
- ✅ Automatic charging when invoice is created
- ✅ Uses saved default payment method
- ✅ Retry logic for failed payments
- ✅ Per-client autopay settings
- ✅ Autopay status tracking

### 3. **Enhanced Payment Modal**
- ✅ Display saved payment methods
- ✅ Option to use saved card or enter new card
- ✅ "Save for future payments" checkbox (Stripe Link)
- ✅ "Enable autopay" checkbox
- ✅ Real-time card validation
- ✅ Professional UI with Stripe Elements

### 4. **Refund Processing**
- ✅ Full and partial refunds
- ✅ Refund reason tracking
- ✅ Stripe API integration
- ✅ Automatic invoice status updates
- ✅ Refund history display
- ✅ Email/SMS notifications (ready for integration)

### 5. **Thrizer Integration**
- ✅ One-click button to submit invoices to Thrizer
- ✅ Automatic clipboard copy of invoice details
- ✅ Opens Thrizer dashboard in new tab
- ✅ Invoice status tracking
- ✅ Seamless workflow for out-of-network claims

### 6. **Payment History Reports**
- ✅ Comprehensive payment analytics
- ✅ Revenue summary (total, outstanding, refunds)
- ✅ Collection rate tracking
- ✅ Payment method breakdown
- ✅ Transaction history table
- ✅ Export to PDF capability
- ✅ Date range filtering

### 7. **Streamlined Invoice Creation**
- ✅ Quick-add from client chart
- ✅ Auto-populate client details
- ✅ Service picker with CPT codes
- ✅ One-click invoice generation

---

## 🗄️ Database Schema

### New Tables Added

#### `payment_methods`
Stores only Stripe references - **NEVER card data**
```sql
- id (SERIAL PRIMARY KEY)
- client_id (INTEGER)
- stripe_customer_id (VARCHAR)
- stripe_payment_method_id (VARCHAR)
- type (VARCHAR) -- card, bank_account
- last4 (VARCHAR)
- brand (VARCHAR)
- expiry_month (INTEGER)
- expiry_year (INTEGER)
- is_default (BOOLEAN)
- is_autopay_enabled (BOOLEAN)
- created_at (TIMESTAMP)
```

#### `payment_transactions`
Tracks all payment and refund transactions
```sql
- id (SERIAL PRIMARY KEY)
- invoice_id (INTEGER)
- client_id (INTEGER)
- amount (DECIMAL)
- stripe_charge_id (VARCHAR)
- payment_method_id (INTEGER)
- status (VARCHAR) -- succeeded, failed, refunded
- type (VARCHAR) -- payment, refund
- refund_amount (DECIMAL)
- refund_reason (TEXT)
- created_at (TIMESTAMP)
```

### Enhanced Tables

#### `clients`
```sql
+ stripe_customer_id (VARCHAR)
+ autopay_enabled (BOOLEAN)
```

#### `invoices`
```sql
+ stripe_payment_intent_id (VARCHAR)
+ autopay_attempted (BOOLEAN)
+ autopay_result (TEXT)
+ refund_amount (DECIMAL)
+ refund_reason (TEXT)
+ thrizer_claim_status (VARCHAR)
```

---

## 🔌 API Endpoints

### 1. **Payment Methods** (`/api/payment-methods`)
- `GET` - Retrieve client's saved payment methods
- `POST` - Attach payment method to customer
- `PUT` - Update default/autopay settings
- `DELETE` - Detach payment method

### 2. **Refunds** (`/api/refunds`)
- `GET` - Get refund history for invoice
- `POST` - Process refund (full or partial)

### 3. **Payment Reports** (`/api/payment-reports`)
- `GET` - Generate payment analytics and history
- Supports date range, client, and status filtering

### 4. **Autopay** (`/api/autopay`)
- `GET` - Check invoices due for autopay
- `POST` - Attempt autopay charge

### 5. **Enhanced Payment Intent** (`/api/create-payment-intent`)
- Supports saved payment methods
- Stripe Link integration
- Autopay setup

### 6. **Enhanced Webhooks** (`/api/webhook`)
- `payment_intent.succeeded` - Update invoice status
- `payment_method.attached` - Log payment method
- `charge.refunded` - Update refund status
- `setup_intent.succeeded` - Confirm autopay setup

---

## 🎨 Frontend Features

### Payment Modal Enhancements
- Saved payment methods display
- Card brand icons
- Default payment method badge
- New card form toggle
- Save for future payments option
- Enable autopay option

### Invoice Actions
- 💳 Pay Now button (with saved cards)
- 📋 Thrizer button (copies details, opens dashboard)
- 🔄 Refund button (for paid invoices)

### Reports Dashboard
- Payment History Report option
- Summary statistics cards
- Payment method breakdown
- Transaction history table
- Export to PDF

---

## 🔐 Security & Compliance

### Payment Data Security
- ✅ **No card data stored** in Sessionably database
- ✅ All sensitive data stored in Stripe
- ✅ Only Stripe IDs and metadata stored locally
- ✅ PCI DSS compliance via Stripe
- ✅ Secure API communication (HTTPS)

### HIPAA Considerations
- ✅ Payment data separated from clinical data
- ✅ Audit logging for all transactions
- ✅ Secure data transmission
- ✅ Access controls

---

## 🚀 Usage Guide

### For Clinicians

#### Saving a Payment Method
1. Click "Pay Now" on an invoice
2. Enter card details
3. Check "Save for future payments"
4. Optionally check "Enable autopay"
5. Complete payment

#### Using Saved Payment Method
1. Click "Pay Now" on an invoice
2. Select saved payment method
3. Click "Pay" button
4. Payment processes instantly

#### Processing a Refund
1. Click "Refund" button on paid invoice
2. Select refund type (full/partial)
3. Choose refund reason
4. Add optional notes
5. Click "Process Refund"

#### Submitting to Thrizer
1. Click "📋 Thrizer" button on pending invoice
2. Invoice details automatically copied to clipboard
3. Thrizer dashboard opens in new tab
4. Paste details into Thrizer form
5. Submit claim

#### Viewing Payment Reports
1. Go to "📊 Reports" tab
2. Select "Payment History" from dropdown
3. View summary statistics
4. Review transaction history
5. Export to PDF if needed

### For Clients

#### Enabling Autopay
1. During payment, check "Enable autopay for future invoices"
2. Or set in client billing settings
3. Future invoices automatically charged

#### Managing Payment Methods
1. View saved cards in client chart
2. Set default payment method
3. Remove old payment methods
4. Update card information

---

## 🧪 Testing

### Test Card Numbers
Use these in Stripe test mode:
- `4242 4242 4242 4242` - Success
- `4000 0000 0000 9995` - Declined
- `4000 0025 0000 3155` - Requires authentication

### Test Scenarios
1. ✅ Save payment method with Stripe Link
2. ✅ Pay with saved payment method
3. ✅ Process full refund
4. ✅ Process partial refund
5. ✅ Submit invoice to Thrizer
6. ✅ Generate payment history report
7. ✅ Enable autopay
8. ✅ Autopay charge on invoice creation

---

## 📊 Monitoring & Analytics

### Stripe Dashboard
- Monitor all payments in real-time
- View payment method attachments
- Track refunds
- Review webhook events

### Vercel Logs
- Function execution logs
- Error tracking
- Performance metrics

### Sessionably Audit Log
- All payment transactions logged
- Refund actions tracked
- User activity recorded

---

## 🔄 Future Enhancements

### Planned Features
- [ ] Email/SMS notifications for payment events
- [ ] Subscription management
- [ ] Payment plans
- [ ] Recurring billing
- [ ] Multiple payment methods per invoice
- [ ] International payment support
- [ ] Advanced analytics dashboard
- [ ] Custom report builder

### Integration Opportunities
- [ ] Accounting software integration (QuickBooks, Xero)
- [ ] Banking integration
- [ ] Insurance verification
- [ ] EMR integration
- [ ] Telehealth platform integration

---

## 🛠️ Technical Details

### Technology Stack
- **Frontend:** Vanilla JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3
- **Backend:** Node.js, Vercel Serverless Functions
- **Database:** Backblaze B2 (backblaze)
- **Payment Processing:** Stripe
- **Deployment:** Vercel

### Dependencies
- `stripe` - Payment processing
- `@backblazedatabase/serverless` - Database client

### Environment Variables
- `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY` - Stripe secret key
- `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET` - Webhook signing secret
- `DATABASE_URL` - Backblaze B2 connection string

---

## 📞 Support & Resources

### Documentation
- [Stripe Documentation](https://stripe.com/docs)
- [Vercel Documentation](https://vercel.com/docs)
- [backblaze Documentation](https://backblaze.tech/docs)

### Support Contacts
- Stripe Support: https://support.stripe.com
- Vercel Support: https://vercel.com/support
- Thrizer: https://app.thrizer.com

---

## ✅ Deployment Status

**Latest Commit:** `b694fba`  
**Deployment:** ✅ Live on Vercel  
**Status:** All features operational

### Commits Summary
1. `6dc5437` - Fix Vercel deployment configuration
2. `9ba9d41` - Add enhanced billing system APIs
3. `4568be5` - Add frontend: payment methods, Thrizer, refunds
4. `b694fba` - Add payment history reports

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### Performance
- Payment processing: < 3 seconds
- API response time: < 500ms
- Page load time: < 2 seconds
- 99.9% uptime

### Security
- Zero card data breaches
- PCI DSS compliant
- HIPAA considerations met
- Secure webhook verification

---

**Built with ❤️ for Sessionably**

*Last Updated: October 17, 2024*
