NOTIFICATION_BRANDING_UPDATE.md, before:

# Notification System - Practice Branding Update

## 🎉 What's New

The notification system has been updated to reflect **your practice's information** instead of ClinicalCanvas branding throughout all email and SMS communications.

## ✨ Key Changes

### 1. **Practice-Branded Emails**
- Email header displays your practice name prominently
- Professional HTML email templates with responsive design
- Contact information (phone, email, website) in footer
- ClinicalCanvas attribution only in footer as "HIPAA Compliant Messenger"

### 2. **Practice-Branded SMS**
- SMS messages signed with your practice name
- No ClinicalCanvas branding in SMS
- Concise, mobile-optimized text

### 3. **Updated Templates (8 Total)**
All notification templates now support practice branding:
- ✅ Payment Received
- ✅ Payment Failed
- ✅ Refund Processed
- ✅ Invoice Created
- ✅ Autopay Enabled
- ✅ Autopay Failed
- ✅ Appointment Reminder
- ✅ Document Assigned

### 4. **New Helper Functions**
- `getPracticeSettings(userId)` - Fetch practice settings from database
- `createHTMLEmail(content, practiceSettings)` - Create branded HTML emails
- Updated `sendEmail()` - Now accepts `practiceSettings` parameter
- Updated `sendTemplateNotification()` - Now accepts `practiceSettings` parameter

## 📝 Files Modified

1. **`/api/utils/notifications.js`**
   - Added database connection for practice settings
   - Added `getPracticeSettings()` function
   - Added `createHTMLEmail()` function for professional HTML emails
   - Updated `sendEmail()` to support practice branding
   - Updated `sendDualNotification()` to pass practice settings
   - Updated all 8 templates to use practice information
   - Updated `sendTemplateNotification()` to accept practice settings

2. **`/EMAIL_SMS_SETUP.md`**
   - Added "Practice Branding" section
   - Updated template descriptions
   - Added customization examples with practice branding
   - Updated last modified date

3. **`/NOTIFICATION_USAGE_EXAMPLES.md`** (NEW)
   - Comprehensive usage guide
   - Examples for all 8 templates
   - Best practices
   - Troubleshooting guide

## 🔄 Migration Guide

### Before (Old Usage)
```javascript
const { sendTemplateNotification } = require('./utils/notifications');

await sendTemplateNotification(
    'paymentReceived',
    invoiceData,
    { email: 'client@example.com' }
);
```

### After (New Usage with Practice Branding)
```javascript
const { sendTemplateNotification, getPracticeSettings } = require('./utils/notifications');

const practiceSettings = await getPracticeSettings(userId);

await sendTemplateNotification(
    'paymentReceived',
    { invoice: invoiceData },
    { email: 'client@example.com' },
    practiceSettings
);
```

### Backward Compatibility
The system maintains backward compatibility:
- If `practiceSettings` is not provided, defaults to "Your Practice"
- Old template calls will still work (but won't have practice branding)
- No breaking changes to existing API

## 🏥 Practice Information Used

The following fields from `practice_settings` table are used for branding:
- `practice_name` - Primary branding (required)
- `practice_phone` - Contact footer
- `practice_email` - Contact footer
- `practice_website` - Contact footer

## 🎨 Email Design

### Header
- Dark background (#2c3e50)
- White text
- Practice name centered and prominent

### Body
- Clean, professional layout
- Highlight boxes for important information
- Easy-to-read typography
- Mobile responsive

### Footer
- Practice contact information
- ClinicalCanvas attribution
- HIPAA compliance notice

## 🚀 Benefits

1. **Professional Branding**: Emails and SMS now represent your practice
2. **Trust**: Clients receive communications from their practice, not a third party
3. **Compliance**: ClinicalCanvas still identified as HIPAA messenger in footer
4. **Flexibility**: Easy to customize per practice
5. **No Setup Required**: Automatically uses practice settings from database

## 📊 Impact

- **No breaking changes**: Existing code continues to work
- **Opt-in branding**: Pass `practiceSettings` to enable
- **Graceful degradation**: Works even without practice settings
- **Performance**: Minimal database queries (one per notification batch)

## 🔍 Testing Recommendations

1. Configure practice settings in admin panel
2. Send test notifications in demo mode
3. Verify practice name appears in emails
4. Check HTML rendering in various email clients
5. Test SMS messages on mobile devices
6. Verify ClinicalCanvas footer attribution

## 📚 Documentation

- `EMAIL_SMS_SETUP.md` - Complete setup guide with practice branding section
- `NOTIFICATION_USAGE_EXAMPLES.md` - Usage examples and best practices
- Inline code documentation updated

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. ✅ Update practice settings in admin panel
2. ✅ Test notifications in demo mode
3. ✅ Update any custom notification code to use practice branding
4. ✅ Deploy to production
5. ✅ Monitor notification delivery

---

**Version:** 2.0.0
**Date:** November 2, 2025
**Breaking Changes:** None
**Backward Compatible:** Yes

Commit message:

Rebrand ClinicalCanvasEHR to Sessionably
Complete rebrand of the application from ClinicalCanvasEHR to Sessionably:
- Updated package.json and manifest.json
- Renamed all logo files (clinicalcanvas-* to sessionably-*)
- Updated all domain references (clinicalcanvas.app to sessionably.com)
- Updated all source code files (API, utilities, HTML, CSS, JS)
- Updated all documentation (.md files)
- Updated environment variable examples
- Updated database references
- Updated notification templates and branding

All instances of "ClinicalCanvas" have been replaced with "Sessionably"
New domain: sessionably.com

NOTIFICATION_BRANDING_UPDATE.md, after:

# Notification System - Practice Branding Update

## 🎉 What's New

The notification system has been updated to reflect **your practice's information** instead of Sessionably branding throughout all email and SMS communications.

## ✨ Key Changes

### 1. **Practice-Branded Emails**
- Email header displays your practice name prominently
- Professional HTML email templates with responsive design
- Contact information (phone, email, website) in footer
- Sessionably attribution only in footer as "HIPAA Compliant Messenger"

### 2. **Practice-Branded SMS**
- SMS messages signed with your practice name
- No Sessionably branding in SMS
- Concise, mobile-optimized text

### 3. **Updated Templates (8 Total)**
All notification templates now support practice branding:
- ✅ Payment Received
- ✅ Payment Failed
- ✅ Refund Processed
- ✅ Invoice Created
- ✅ Autopay Enabled
- ✅ Autopay Failed
- ✅ Appointment Reminder
- ✅ Document Assigned

### 4. **New Helper Functions**
- `getPracticeSettings(userId)` - Fetch practice settings from database
- `createHTMLEmail(content, practiceSettings)` - Create branded HTML emails
- Updated `sendEmail()` - Now accepts `practiceSettings` parameter
- Updated `sendTemplateNotification()` - Now accepts `practiceSettings` parameter

## 📝 Files Modified

1. **`/api/utils/notifications.js`**
   - Added database connection for practice settings
   - Added `getPracticeSettings()` function
   - Added `createHTMLEmail()` function for professional HTML emails
   - Updated `sendEmail()` to support practice branding
   - Updated `sendDualNotification()` to pass practice settings
   - Updated all 8 templates to use practice information
   - Updated `sendTemplateNotification()` to accept practice settings

2. **`/EMAIL_SMS_SETUP.md`**
   - Added "Practice Branding" section
   - Updated template descriptions
   - Added customization examples with practice branding
   - Updated last modified date

3. **`/NOTIFICATION_USAGE_EXAMPLES.md`** (NEW)
   - Comprehensive usage guide
   - Examples for all 8 templates
   - Best practices
   - Troubleshooting guide

## 🔄 Migration Guide

### Before (Old Usage)
```javascript
const { sendTemplateNotification } = require('./utils/notifications');

await sendTemplateNotification(
    'paymentReceived',
    invoiceData,
    { email: 'client@example.com' }
);
```

### After (New Usage with Practice Branding)
```javascript
const { sendTemplateNotification, getPracticeSettings } = require('./utils/notifications');

const practiceSettings = await getPracticeSettings(userId);

await sendTemplateNotification(
    'paymentReceived',
    { invoice: invoiceData },
    { email: 'client@example.com' },
    practiceSettings
);
```

### Backward Compatibility
The system maintains backward compatibility:
- If `practiceSettings` is not provided, defaults to "Your Practice"
- Old template calls will still work (but won't have practice branding)
- No breaking changes to existing API

## 🏥 Practice Information Used

The following fields from `practice_settings` table are used for branding:
- `practice_name` - Primary branding (required)
- `practice_phone` - Contact footer
- `practice_email` - Contact footer
- `practice_website` - Contact footer

## 🎨 Email Design

### Header
- Dark background (#2c3e50)
- White text
- Practice name centered and prominent

### Body
- Clean, professional layout
- Highlight boxes for important information
- Easy-to-read typography
- Mobile responsive

### Footer
- Practice contact information
- Sessionably attribution
- HIPAA compliance notice

## 🚀 Benefits

1. **Professional Branding**: Emails and SMS now represent your practice
2. **Trust**: Clients receive communications from their practice, not a third party
3. **Compliance**: Sessionably still identified as HIPAA messenger in footer
4. **Flexibility**: Easy to customize per practice
5. **No Setup Required**: Automatically uses practice settings from database

## 📊 Impact

- **No breaking changes**: Existing code continues to work
- **Opt-in branding**: Pass `practiceSettings` to enable
- **Graceful degradation**: Works even without practice settings
- **Performance**: Minimal database queries (one per notification batch)

## 🔍 Testing Recommendations

1. Configure practice settings in admin panel
2. Send test notifications in demo mode
3. Verify practice name appears in emails
4. Check HTML rendering in various email clients
5. Test SMS messages on mobile devices
6. Verify Sessionably footer attribution

## 📚 Documentation

- `EMAIL_SMS_SETUP.md` - Complete setup guide with practice branding section
- `NOTIFICATION_USAGE_EXAMPLES.md` - Usage examples and best practices
- Inline code documentation updated

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. ✅ Update practice settings in admin panel
2. ✅ Test notifications in demo mode
3. ✅ Update any custom notification code to use practice branding
4. ✅ Deploy to production
5. ✅ Monitor notification delivery

---

**Version:** 2.0.0
**Date:** November 2, 2025
**Breaking Changes:** None
**Backward Compatible:** Yes
